---
layout: post
title: So. How is your backup situation?
redirect_from: /home/2011/10/28/boom/index.html
---
<p>Not long ago, everything was humming along normally here at PE until I started noticing some odd errors in the WordPress dashboard. They would come and go but didn’t seem too serious.</p>
<p>I decided to have a chat with my trusty web host admin—who happens to be a good friend. It was a fairly calm conversation until he said this:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Databases started disappearing 10 minutes ago.</p>
<p>very bad news</p>
<p>I’m dumping the whole database server out right now, but already lost a few</p>
<p>how’s your backup situation?</p>
</blockquote>
<p>In other words, “this is not a drill.” Cue the standing neck hairs.</p>
<h2 id="thatlastlineshouldringinyourhead">That last line should ring in your head</h2>
<p><em>How is your backup situation?</em> Well?</p>
<p>Do you have backups? Yes? Okay, well, have you looked lately to make sure the snazzy automated-and-archive-so-you-don’t-have-to-touch-it-or-see-it gem is actually still running? Or did it get quietly assassinated in the night by last month’s platform upgrade?</p>
<p>Have you checked to see whether the backups produced by your system are usable? Have you even practiced restoring them?</p>
<p>Are you backing up everything you would <em>really</em> need in the event of a total system (not just data) loss?</p>
<h2 id="boom">Boom!</h2>
<p>You don’t know when disaster will strike, but you should assume it will be at a most inopportune and unexpected time. Perfect data storms can form at a moment’s notice. And sometimes thunder claps in a blue sky.</p>
<p>Being a little scared on a recurring basis is useful.</p>
<h2 id="iwasok">I was OK</h2>
<p>Fortunately I had good, regular, and recent backups, so getting my database back up and running went well. But I’m a little more fearful about all of my data now. And I’m glad.</p>
