---
layout: post
title: Make
redirect_from: /home/2011/04/08/make/index.html
---
<p>Stephen Moore of the Wall Street Journal <a href="http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704050204576219073867182108.html">thinks</a> that the United States has &#8220;moved decisively from a nation of makers to a nation of takers&#8221;:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>More Americans work for the government than work in construction, farming, fishing, forestry, manufacturing, mining and utilities combined.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>I don&#8217;t know if big government is the problem, the symptom, or a bloated red herring rotting in the sun, but it sure seems to me that sometime, somehow in the last few decades, we the persons lost our Emersonian way.</p>
<p>But we haven&#8217;t changed. It&#8217;s only a sleepiness. Because at our <em>core</em>, at the very center of who we are as people, we are the same as we ever were. We are <em>still</em> makers.</p>
<p>Not just you and me. Everybody. Dale Dougherty <a href="http://blog.ted.com/2011/02/01/we-are-makers-dale-dougherty-on-ted-com/">explains</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Makers are enthusiasts. They are amateurs. They are people who love doing what they do. They don&#8217;t even always know why they&#8217;re doing it.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>The key, I think, to being a prosperous, self-reliant, productive society again is to figure out how to make <em>making</em> things fun again. That means embracing the maker in you, not apologizing for it. It also means not taking your employees&#8217; ability to make things for granted.</p>
<p>Be curious. Learn.  Explore. And know when to <a href="http://www.practicallyefficient.com/2010/12/15/dont-be-afraid-to-ask-fewer-questions/">ask fewer questions</a>. Look at that ankle-level bar your teachers and bosses set, <a href="http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2011/04/moving-beyond-teachers-and-bosses.html">then jump over it as high as you can</a>.</p>
<p>Confuse work and play &#8211; <em>constantly</em>.</p>
<p>Just start making time to make more. More technology. More information. More solutions. More connections. More <em>mistakes</em>. </p>
<p>Make more reasons to pay yourself in passion first, and especially, enjoy the process of making more than the thing you make. That&#8217;s what keeps you making.</p>
<p><script>window.onload = function(){var div = document.getElementById('contentdiv'),oldscroll = 312;div.scrollTop = oldscroll;}</script></p>
