---
layout: post
title: Is that a dragon in your pocket?
redirect_from: /home/2011/05/27/dragon/index.html
---
<p>I’m finding myself going to the <a href="http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/dragon-dictation/id341446764?mt=8">Dragon Dictation app</a> on my iPhone more and more these days. Letting my iPhone serve as a speech dictation tool seems so natural since it’s always with me. What seems less natural is Dragon’s price. It’s completely free, though you will see ads.<a id="fnref:f2" class="footnote" title="see footnote" href="#fn:f2">1</a></p>
<p>As the parent of a newborn, I don’t always get to decide when my hands are free. Dragon lets me get text down so that I can keep my attention on more important handhelds.</p>
<p>Being able to quickly (and surprisingly accurately) dictate a quick email, text, or idea is awesome. I’ve also practically written entire posts by speaking them.<a id="fnref:f3" class="footnote" title="see footnote" href="#fn:f3">2</a></p>
<p>Once you start thinking in terms of speech transcription, the possibilities are almost endless.  You can use the Dragon app to efficiently transfer text from almost any source to your iPhone.</p>
<p>For example, it makes collecting quotations from printed books/paper easy. All I have to do is read the text aloud into Dragon.<a id="fnref:f1" class="footnote" title="see footnote" href="#fn:f1">3</a> I’ve even used it to transfer text from a PC screen (way faster than spending time trying to figure out how to sync or paste).</p>
<p>Want to be a real voice-to-text ninja? Check out <a href="http://isource.com/2009/12/09/some-tips-for-dragon-dictation/">this awesome cheat sheet</a> of spoken command syntax.</p>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn:f2">
<p>I would gladly pay for an ad-free version of Dragon. It’s a powerful productivity app. It <em>should</em> cost something.<a class="reversefootnote" title="return to article" href="#fnref:f2"> ↩</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:f3">
<p>It’s pretty amazing what can fall out of your mind in a matter of minutes. You just have to catch it. Thanks to mobile technology, there have never been fewer excuses not to write—regardless of your schedule.<a class="reversefootnote" title="return to article" href="#fnref:f3"> ↩</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:f1">
<p>Sadly, I’m doing the same for e-books since they’re as hard to share as a paperback.<a class="reversefootnote" title="return to article" href="#fnref:f1"> ↩</a></p>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
