---
layout: post
title: 'FWD: FWD: FWD: Just don''t'
redirect_from: /home/2011/09/01/lies/index.html
---
<p>If you were to assume that every email you receive with lots of “FWDs” in the subject line is flat-out false, you would be right way more often than not.</p>
<p>I dislike many things about the temporally and fiscally over-extended American presidential campaign season, but the the torrent of lies propagated by email pisses me off the most. It’s mind-blowing that so many otherwise-intelligent people pass along indent-mangled, Comic Sans-laden lies without thinking about it.</p>
<p>People place so much trust on anything they receive from friends and family, they never question adding another FWD to the subject line. Even people that know about sites like <a href="http://www.snopes.com">Snopes.com</a> rarely take the time to validate email “information” there. I guess it’s easier to just pass along lies than question them.</p>
<h2 id="exponentiatingerroneousness">How to detonate a misinformation nuclear warhead via email</h2>
<p>Pressing forward probably feels like an insignificant action. It’s not.</p>
<p>Suppose you forward an email to 10 people, and then those 10 each forward to another 10, and then those 100 each forward to another 10…</p>
<p>If only 5 rounds of this occur, which can easily happen in a single day, as many as 111,111 people will receive the lie in their inbox:</p>
<p style="text-align: center;">You + 10 + 10<sup>2</sup> + 10<sup>3</sup> + 10<sup>4</sup> + 10<sup>5</sup> = 111,111</p>
<p>Another 3 rounds, and you’ve misinformed over 111 <em>million</em> people. Granted these are upper bounds because some people will re-receive the email. But still.</p>
<p>Given that recent presidents haven’t exactly been landslide winners, the virality of political misinformation near election day should be of major concern. If even a small fraction of people are influenced, that’s enough to affect an election outcome.</p>
<h2 id="anideaforrelief">An idea for relief</h2>
<p>I once wrote Google to recommend creating a Snopes.com lab for Gmail. I suggested that Gmail could flag emails containing known falsehoods. Google’s bots are already reading our email to serve ads and tell us we forgot attachments. Why not pipe FWDs through a Snopes search?</p>
<p>Of course, it’s not just an email problem anymore. There are many, many more social media users today than in 2008. Facebook is as much a dumping ground for untruths as email. At least Facebook is more open, increasing the chances someone will call out the lies.</p>
<p>Human nature won’t change any time soon. People will continue creating lies, and people will continue repeating them. But hopefully, one day, software can help mitigate technology’s new role as a lie accelerant.</p>
<p>Until then, just delete FWDs. Please?</p>
