---
layout: post
title: It's not Everynote
redirect_from: /home/2011/09/12/evernote/index.html
---
<p>Brett makes <a href="http://brettterpstra.com/why-a-plain-text-nerd-uses-evernote/">great points</a> why he, one of the modern era's greatest plain text heroes, uses Evernote. In short, Brett uses Evernote because it’s useful—not unlike Brett himself.</p>
<p>I’m very much a plain text nerd, too. I can hardly go a week around here without extolling nvALT, Markdown, and other plain text tools.</p>
<p>Plain text just plain rocks. It's not a panacea, though.</p>
<p>I can’t store PDF camera manuals in plain text. Or my medical insurance cards. Or photo scans of handwritten notes. Or photos of potential Christmas gifts. Or audio notes.</p>
<p>Yeah I could put that stuff in Dropbox. But Dropbox doesn’t OCR images for me. Dropbox doesn’t give me a single search field on my iOS devices. Dropbox doesn’t have a single point of entry on my iPhone for every kind of data that Dropbox can house.</p>
<p>And Dropbox, to me, just lends itself more to folder-based organization. It’s not immediately obvious, for example, where to put a photo of a credit card brochure containing information and phone numbers for roadside assistance. Yeah, I save crap like that.</p>
<p>Evernote is a house for the randomly useful, but it’s not an everything box. At least not for me. It’s simply a very well-designed niche tool for capturing and storing non-plain-text information that I want to retain.</p>
<p><strong>Evernote makes my life easier:</strong> When my wife calls me from the pediatrician’s office and needs to know whether well child visits are covered under our new insurance policy, I’m glad all I have to do is make a quick text search on my iOS device and find the answer in seconds.</p>
<p>I think the mistake so many people make with Evernote is the same mistake people make with Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, and other apps that have the potential to do everything.</p>
<p>Don’t approach Evernote with an all or nothing attitude. Instead, 1) look for specific ways that Evernote can make your life easier, 2) use it for those things, and 3) STOP.</p>
