---
layout: post
title: What’s your business case for not owning an app phone?
redirect_from: /home/2011/04/20/app-phone/index.html
---
<p><em>“Conventional wisdom often produces conventional results.” -Bill Walsh</em>
I’m always amused at the effort some people put into saving money, when, if they would just direct a fraction of that effort in a more constructive direction, they’d solve the problem that motivated their thrifty approach in no time.</p>
<p>In the context of app phones… I still see people trying to figure out how get one as cheaply as possible by looking for rock-bottom deals on cheap devices, and then figuring out which carrier will let them pay the absolute minimum for service.</p>
<p>I would offer the following alternative for economically switching to an app phone:</p>
<ol>
<li>Go through the drawers in your house.</li>
<li>Collect a basket of junk that you’ll never use again.</li>
<li>Sell it on eBay to raise $200.<a id="fnref:ebay" class="footnote" title="see footnote" href="#fn:ebay">1</a></li>
<li>Buy a top-of-the-line app phone.</li>
<li>Cancel your landline.</li>
</ol>
<p>You may find that the app phone pays <em>you</em> every month going forward.</p>
<p>Add to this the value your app phone will bring when</p>
<ul>
<li>Freeing up time on vacations that you’d otherwise spend fumbling with a map, or worse, lost</li>
<li>Price comparing products in stores by simply scanning bar codes</li>
<li>Having more options for staying in touch with family</li>
<li>Running your business more efficiently by triaging email on your phone <em>before</em> sitting down at a full keyboard to do better things</li>
</ul>
<p>. . . to name only a few.</p>
<ul></ul>
<p>They’re not just toys anymore, and honestly, it's getting harder to cost-justify <em>not</em> owning one anymore.</p>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn:ebay">You might be surprised how much cash is collecting dust in your home. Several years ago when I decided to try eBay, I came up with over $1000 of stuff. Everything from clothing I no longer wanted to graphing calculators to CDs. I don’t miss any of it.<a class="reversefootnote" title="return to article" href="#fnref:ebay"> ↩</a></li>
</ol>
</div>
