---
layout: post
title: Swimming lessons
redirect_from: /home/2012/05/26/swim/index.html
---
<p><em>Evernote Essentials</em> author and pro bono Twitter comedian Brett Kelly <a href="http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/2012/05/24/six-figure-businesses-built-for-less-than-100-17-lessons-learned/">appeared</a> on Tim Ferriss&#8217;s blog the other day. While I&#8217;m generally at odds with the motivation behind Tim&#8217;s &#8220;four-hour workweek&#8221; school of thinking<a href="#fn:1" id="fnref:1" title="see footnote" class="footnote">[1]</a>, I enjoyed seeing my friend Brett get cited as a self-made success story on a big stage.</p>
<p>The upshot of Brett&#8217;s path to success:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Simplify things and cash in.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Right on. There is something in that sentence for everyone. I can&#8217;t think of any job—from being a writer to a garbage collector—where those words don&#8217;t apply.</p>
<p>Winners simplify.</p>
<p>It&#8217;s really what Steve Jobs&#8217;s &#8220;we’re here to put a dent in the universe&#8221; quote personally means to me. Our universe <a href="http://www.practicallyefficient.com/2011/09/29/flat/">will always move toward chaos</a>. However, I believe that we, as thinking, though extremely temporary, beings have the ability to reverse the course of chaos, if only for short periods of time.</p>
<p>To dent the universe is to simplify it. Whether you sell widgets or <a href="http://www.practicallyefficient.com/2011/01/20/the-plight-of-the-time-salesman/">time</a>, the people that pay you want <em>you</em> to make <em>their</em> life simpler. If you aren&#8217;t making someone&#8217;s life simpler, you&#8217;re probably nowhere near your full market value. And by <em>you</em>, I mean <em>me</em>, too. I&#8217;m very imperfect at it.</p>
<p>Bobbing along in the current of entropy will always be the easiest option, but the best things tend to happen when you swim the other way: when you simplify.<a href="#fn:2" id="fnref:2" title="see footnote" class="footnote">[2]</a></p>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn:1">
<p>Instead of finding creative ways of avoiding work, I think you should find fun things to do <em>for work</em> and then spend a hell of a lot more than four hours a week doing those things. <a href="#fnref:1" title="return to article" class="reversefootnote">&#160;&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:2">
<p>(And when you work more than four hours a week.) <a href="#fnref:2" title="return to article" class="reversefootnote">&#160;&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
