---
layout: post
title: My turn to talk about Dark Sky
redirect_from: /home/2012/08/02/dark-sky/index.html
---
<p>At this point, I’m reasonably confident that I’m the only one in the world with an iPhone and blog that hasn’t commented on <a href="http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/dark-sky/id517329357?mt=8">Dark Sky</a>.</p>
<p>First, let me say that I like Dark Sky—enough to leave it on my home screen. And like others, I’ve found it’s forecasts to be surprisingly accurate, especially when a preexisting line of thunderstorms is making its way toward me.</p>
<p>But I’ve had at least three occasions this summer when Dark Sky was incorrectly bright. Where I live, in the southeast, sometimes afternoon thunderstorms materialize out of nowhere. Granted, these events are probably almost impossible to forecast. (I think the science of meteorology is still largely in its dark ages, and much of what happens in our atmosphere remains unexplained—and unpredictable.)</p>
<p>Growing up in the south and spending most of my childhood outdoors, I developed a pretty keen sense for when rain was going to occur. Whether I was camping or trying to call a thunderstorm’s bluff on the golf course where I worked for three summers at a teen, I learned the difference between an overcast sky and a boiling thunderhead.</p>
<p>And so today, if I’m about to go for a run or take my fifteen-month-old for a stroll, I trust my own senses first and Dark Sky second.</p>
<p>Still, it’s a great app. Buy it if you haven’t already.</p>
