---
layout: post
title: 'Dispatch: the mail app I didn''t delete'
redirect_from: /home/2013/06/27/dispatch/index.html
---
<p>I really like <a href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/dispatch-action-based-email/id642022747?mt=8">Dispatch</a>, and this is coming from a guy who tries <em>all</em> the new email apps but never writes about <em>any</em> of them. I feel compelled to say something about Dispatch, though. I've been using it daily since Federico Viticci <a href="http://www.macstories.net/reviews/dispatch-a-new-email-client-for-ios-with-app-actions-and-snippets/">reviewed it</a>. </p>

<p>Most new email apps that I buy get deleted in less than a week, but Dispatch is sticking. Here are a few reasons why. . .</p>

<h2 id="nativeprocessing">Native processing</h2>

<p>I can send links straight to Instapaper for reading later, fire emails directly into the iOS OmniFocus app, and even send messages straight to Evernote. I love being able to act on mail locally (as I would in OS X) without forwarding mail to some hacky email account first.</p>

<h2 id="gesturesthatwork">Gestures that work</h2>

<p>People gave a lot of praise to Mailbox, but I never could master the swipe-to-archive-but-not-too-fast-or-else-you'll-delete technique. Not only is Dispatch's swipe-to-archive gesture more intuitive, there's always an undo option for <em>any</em> action you take.</p>

<p>Making mistakes while using any app is inevitable. The undo button that appears atop the app after every action is one of the single best features of the app.</p>

<h2 id="stars">Stars</h2>

<p>I can star email with Dispatch. It sounds unremarkable, but starring mail is a hugely fundamental aspect of my email workflow, and it amazes me how many other apps don't support Gmail stars.</p>

<h2 id="messagefirstsubjectsecond">Message first, subject second</h2>

<p>This is a nuance that only an email snob like me would comment on. But I really appreciate the way that Dispatch conceals the To and Subject lines when composing a new message. It has a similar feel to <a href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/drafts/id502385074?mt=8">Drafts</a>, where you naturally prioritize <em>writing</em> content before <em>titling</em> and <em>sending</em> content. This is just how I think things should work, and I appreciate this subtle design feature a whole bunch.</p>

<h2 id="snippets">Snippets</h2>

<p>The snippets feature in Dispatch is really useful. Being able to preload common chunks of text is a major productivity boost on any device that doesn't have a full-sized keyboard. But like Federico mentioned in his review, I just don't get why Dispatch didn't simply hook into TextExpander. This is really my only complaint about the app so far. </p>

<p>More broadly, I don't get why someone hasn't made a good email app that supports TextExpander. I really don't. It seems like such an obvious void to fill. </p>

<h2 id="imexcited">I'm excited</h2>

<p>I'm excited to see where Dispatch goes from here. It's a beautiful app made by people who clearly think about email the way I do. I hope it only gets better.</p>
