---
layout: post
title: On Overcast and overwork
redirect_from: /home/2015/01/16/overwork/index.html
---
<p>A lot of people will probably link to and talk about Marco Arment's <a href="http://www.marco.org/2015/01/15/overcast-sales-numbers">Overcast sales numbers post</a>, which Marco provided as data and education for other app developers. </p>

<p>But as illuminating as his numbers will be to the (good natured) people that read Marco's post, I think the most enlightened part is at the very end:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>After the self-employment penalties in taxes and benefits, I’m probably coming in under what I could get at a good full-time job in the city, but I don’t have to actually work for someone else on something I don’t care about. I can work in my nice home office, drink my fussy coffee, take a nap after lunch if I want to, and be present for my family as my kid grows up. That’s my definition of success.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>I'm really lucky I have a job that gives me indie-like flexibility with my work projects, hours, and location, too. I feel so lucky that I can be so present at home today because I can't imagine the future hell of wishing I'd spent more time with my kids. That I can make a decent living at the same time is just a bonus bestowed by the internet age.</p>

<p>But having complete control over what I work on and how often I work on it can also be a curse for someone like me. I will be the first to admit that I have this innate propensity to pursue my work in every nook and cranny of time I can find—in and around family life. </p>

<p>The more I mature as a person, though, the easier it's getting to remind myself that work is just a means to money, which itself is only a tool. Money is merely a resource that one must acquire to exist in modern society. Once you make enough to secure survival and take your mind off the next meal, the rest is just a game. A truly enlightened individual will weigh the time they spend playing that game with the other things and people they value in life. </p>

<p>In <a href="http://www.ted.com/talks/nigel_marsh_how_to_make_work_life_balance_work#t-260460">one of my absolute favorite TED Talks of all time</a>, Nigel Marsh talks about the importance of work-life balance with almost stinging eloquence. </p>
 
   <iframe src="https://embed-ssl.ted.com/talks/nigel_marsh_how_to_make_work_life_balance_work.html" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>
 
<p>To me, work-life balance is a far more interesting and worthwhile obsession than work itself. Designing your reality is the most important design you'll ever work on. It is the one design that determines <em>everything</em>.</p>
