---
layout: post
title: When the dark side of practicality defeats security
redirect_from: /home/dark-side/index.html
---
<p>Maybe the high visibility of the "Apple vs. FBI" standoff has security on my mind more. I don't know. But a few days ago I decided to change my Apple ID password for the first time in a really long time. I'm still entering it.</p>

<p>The number of prompts on all my devices has been staggering. I know I shouldn't be surprised. I could walk across my home on iDevices if they were laid on the ground touching each other. We have 3 Macs in our home. And our Apple TVs... oh those I-love-them-and-I-hate-them Apple TVs.</p>

<p>Remind me how we ended up with five of them on our network?</p>

<p>And really the Apple TVs do offer the worst of all password experiences. Even though I can enter text with the iOS Remote app, it's still a chore. And many times I'm not even the family member who first encounters the password update prompt. "DAAAAD??!?!?!?"</p>

<p>All that to say, the Apple ID model leaves the security conscious among us wanting. Apple has good security intentions, and I believe my phone is secure. I have confidence in Apple's server security. But I don't have confidence in most people's will to use a strong password that they will have to enter 75 times after changing it, many of those times using a TV remote. I don't even have that confidence in myself.</p>

<p>Now excuse me while I reboot my Mac because a third party calendar app still can't seem to send my new password to iCloud.</p>
