---
layout: post
title: "And, not or"
---

During [Sal Soghoian's appearance][mpu] on Mac Power Users, [he talks][ss] about his philosophy on "and, not or":

> A lot of people mistakenly embrace the concept of *or* when it's not necessary. There really needs to be *and*. And *and* doesn't necessarily cost more... it just offers more. 

Every minute of this show is worth listening to because Sal exudes genius every time he speaks, but his "and, not or" philosophy is a seriously great piece of wisdom, and I hope that now that Sal is outside of Apple he has more opportunity to speak and write about it.  

In my experience—observing both myself and others—the "or" mindset usually leads to paralysis or unneeded time spent rebuilding an entire workflow to fit perfectly in a new framework. 

The most agile, modular solution is usually some of this *and* that. "Or" breeds an "all or nothing" approach that usually just ends in nothing. "And" moves things forward

What's the best computer for productivity? A MacBook *and* an iPad Pro.

Where should I store notes?  [DEVONthink] *and* Apple Notes. 

Where should I write? [Drafts] *and* [Ulysses] *and* [Sublime Text]. 

What's the best way to outline? Plain text *and* [iThoughts] *and* [OmniOutliner].

What camera should I use? A DSLR *and* my iPhone. 

What's the best way to sketch a visual design concept? Real paper *and* an Apple Pencil / iPad. 

Where do tasks belong? OmniFocus *and* Reminders *and* [TaskPaper]. 

What PDF app should I use for mark up? [PDF Expert] *and* [LiquidText] *and* [Notability]. 

In each case, the "and" mindset lets my mind get out of the way of itself. "And" imposes less friction between ideas and actions. 


[ss]: https://overcast.fm/+FrCFyfo1A/1:11:33

[mpu]: https://www.relay.fm/mpu/370